>> Melkey: In the store folder,
we're gonna make a new file called
workout_store_test.go and
the test append at the end is specific.
We need to actually have that to
let the built-in tester and go, and
identify this file is going to be used for
testing purposes.
So let's go ahead and build this.
It's gonna be in package store, and
it's gonna be a few things we need
to actually initially bring in.
So there's this really good package
that I need to share with you guys,
it is called stretcher testify,
if I will go out in a limb here and
say if you've done any form of testing and
go, you have used this package.
It is like the industry standard for
testing in go.
As you can see,
it's 24.1 1000 get up stars,
it's a great tool kit,
it's used by just a lot of people.
And like I said, it's the golden
standard to use within go, right?
And it allows us to have a bunch of these
really nice function utilities to assert
different values in our testing cases.
So you can see here,
do these values equal?
Do they not equal?
Is it nil?
Do I expect an error, etc, etc,
and also give us this little,
nice mock thing that hopefully
we can also explore.
So with that, let's go ahead and
install testify.
So if you want go back to terminal,
go to any empty terminal that you
have in the root of our project.
>> Melkey: Okay, and
then what we can do is just install,
let me just see, right here.
Go get github.com/stretcher/testify.
And it's a go get,
we don't have to do go install.
We don't need it to be binded to our
bin or our path cuz it's not any native
commands we're gonna be using
that testify offers, all right?
So with all that said, we are going
to first build a helper function for
us to connect to our test database, okay?
Now, just as a reminder,
the test database,
we should never touch this test database
outside of this file, like ever.
This is a database that we are gonna use,
and
there's action argument to be made in
the Docker Compose, you can separate them.
You can have one Docker Compose
to run your local DB and
another Docker Compose
to run your test DB.
So that you're not
running two DBs at once.
I did it here just to kind of
save a file and have it one, but
if you want,
you could have two separate DBs running.
Let it have your local DB and
just have the test DB running for
when you run this test suite.
And the purpose of this test suite, it's
a bit of this blur line between a mock
like a unit test and
like an integration test,
because we're truly going to be
calling and querying our database.
And because of that,
what I call these unit tests,
I'll call them more unit
tests than integration tests.
Even though we are integrating
with a database, my definition for
integration test is a full end-to-end
test suite that involves multiple
different services across
the scope of your application.
But again, these are just my definitions
and my approach to this one topic.
That's enough talking,
let's go ahead and write some code.
So here, the first thing I wanna write
is func, I'm gonna set up testDB,
like so, and this is gonna take
an argument that we haven't seen before to
be a pointer to testing.T, all right?
And testing, we're gonna import it is
a standard package in the Go library, and
it provides us testing fixtures that make
testing very, very easy in go, all right?
And what this is going to return
is a SQL database like so.
[COUGH] And we're gonna do is dB error.
We're gonna make the same connection
string, connection string,
so we can do open, okay?
Here we can bring in pgx.
And to do this, we can also bring
back the same import from Jack cpgx.
So in the import, go ahead and just import
github.com/jackcpgx before standard lib.
This is already an import that we
saw in database.go, all right?
And the second argument in the SQL
open is the actual connection string.
So here, we can do host=local host,
users gonna be postgres, okay?
The password is also going to be postgres,
we'll have the DB name equal to postgres
and then the important part is the port.
So my port is 5433, okay?
And this is from my test database,
my real database is running on 5432,
just try and make that clear.
And we'll do SSL mode equals disable,
like so.
Let's always check the errors.
If our error does not equal to nil, we're
actually not going to return an error,
we're actually going use our
texting fixture and do a fatal.
And we'll say, opening test DB,
we can just put db here
as the error like so.
NT fail covers any return, so
we don't need to explicit rate return
at the end of this it's going
to complete fail or test case.
So here, we want to run the migrations for
our test dB, okay?
And the way we can do this is
pretty simple, we can do error.
We can just say, migrate,
not Fs, just migrate.
We're passing that dB, and
then here we're gonna pass in the path to
migrations from where we are relative.
So it's just gonna be two folders up.
And you can see we have
migrations over here, like so.
>> Melkey: If our error does not equal
to nil, what I wanna do is just again,
do a t.Fatalf, t.Fatal format, okay?
I'm gonna say, migrating test dB error and
slide the error inside like that, okay?
And then, one other instance is,
like I said, test dB,
it should be a blank slate every
single time you run our tests.
So I wanna add a function here, and
this function is basically going
to truncate everything in our dB.
Now let's do backticks, so truncate,
okay, workouts and workout_entry.
And we'll make sure it cascades.
And what this does is basically to
allow us to wipe the dB every time we
want to run our setup tests.
And I definitely recommend doing this,
it is not the most performant way,
I will admit.
But the reason why I like this is,
in between test suites,
test functions,
I don't want the test that I wrote and
create workout test to potentially
contaminate the tests.
I want to run on update workout or
get workout, delete workout.
I want the dB to be absolutely empty.
I wanna insert the values,
I wanna test for deletion and
then delete them and
make sure they fully got deleted, or for
any kind of combination between
the CRUD operations, okay?
And then here, all we have to
do is return dB, like so, or
we can catch this error too,
I think I forgot to do this.
So if error does not equal to nil,
we can again just do T.fatal,
we can say truncating tables error,
like so.